this guide will allow you to update qidi max3 or plus3 to debian bookworm with the edge kernel, and the latest klipper, moonraker, and fluidd (or mainsail) without losing functionality of the screen

note that it is not necessary to use the patch files provided by qidi (steps 3 and 5), but installing the firmware updates (which is necessary to get the screen to work) overwites some files in klipper/moonraker. so if you want to run the mainline software, you need to reinstall klipper/moonraker with kiauh after step 12

1. write this image to your emmc: https://github.com/redrathnure/armbian-mkspi/releases/download/mkspi%2F0.3.4-24.2.0-trunk/Armbian-unofficial_24.2.0-trunk_Mkspi_bookworm_edge_6.7.5.img.xz
2. after booting up the printer, login and run: sudo apt update ; sudo apt upgrade -y ; sudo apt install make gcc build-essential git -y ; cd /home/mks ; git clone https://github.com/dw-0/kiauh.git ; /home/mks/kiauh/kiauh.sh. Once kiauh is installed, use it to install klipper, moonraker, and fluidd (or mainsail), in that order (run /home/mks/kiauh/kiauh.sh again to start the script). when prompted make sure to select the option to install with python3, not python2
3. follow the instructions here, but don't overwrite the klipper files yet: https://github.com/QIDITECH/QIDI_PLUS3/issues/27#issuecomment-2073932891
4. when it comes time to flash the extruder, it's not going to appear in the gcode folder. you need to sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt, then copy the klipper.uf2 file to /mnt (cp /home/mks/klipper/out/klipper.uf2 /mnt), then restart the printer
5. follow the instructions here, but don't overwrite the moonraker files yet: https://github.com/QIDITECH/moonraker/issues/1#issuecomment-1985564638
6. follow the instructions here to install the latest firmware (this also overwrites some of the klipper/moonraker files, which is why we didn't do it earlier): https://github.com/billkenney/max3_plus3_recovery
7. if you want to use qidi's patches, overwrite all of the files as described in the qidi issues (steps 3 and 5), except for ~/klipper/klippy/extras/virtual_sdcard.py and ~/moonraker/moonraker/components/machine.py, overwrite those with the ones on this repository (the qidi files don't work, I had to comment or delete a few lines)
8. download libboost_system.so.1.67.0 and libwpa_client.so from this repo, then: sudo mv libwpa_client.so /usr/lib ; sudo mv libboost_system.so.1.67.0 /usr/lib/aarch64-linux-gnu
9. download all of the service files from this repo, move them to /lib/systemd/system (sudo mv *.service /lib/systemd/system), and run: sudo systemctl daemon-reload ; sudo systemctl enable makerbase-byid.service ; sudo systemctl enable makerbase-client.service ; sudo systemctl enable makerbase-net-mods.service ; sudo systemctl start makerbase-byid.service ; sudo systemctl start makerbase-client.service ; sudo systemctl start makerbase-net-mods.service
10. if your screen shows the firmware update has already started, i guess leave it on until the update is complete. otherwise turn your printer off, wait for a bit, and turn it back on--the screen should be white with a progress indicator
11. in your printer.cfg, you need to change max_accel_to_decel: 10000 (deprecated) to minimum_cruise_ratio: 0.5. this should do the trick: sed -i 's/^max_accel_to_decel.*$/minimum_cruise_ratio: 0\.5/' /home/mks/klipper_config/printer.cfg
12. to get your wifi working again, run the following commands: sudo ln -s /usr/src/linux-headers-6.7.5-edge-rockchip64/arch/arm64 /usr/src/linux-headers-6.7.5-edge-rockchip64/arch/aarch64 ; sudo apt install make gcc build-essential git ; cd /home/mks ; git clone https://github.com/lwfinger/rtl8xxxu ; cd /home/mks/rtl8xxxu ; make clean modules ; sudo make install ; sudo make install_fw. Restart the printer, then: cd /home/mks/rtl8xxxu ; sudo modprobe rtl8xxxu_git
13. only do this step if you are not using the qidi patch files and have reinstalled clean versions of klipper/moonraker. if you have the inductive probe, in the printer.cfg, you need to change every instance of printer.probe["x_offset"] to printer.configfile.settings.probe.x_offset and every instance of printer.probe["y_offset"] to printer.configfile.settings.probe.y_offset. If you have the bltouch, replace probe with bltouch. run these commands for the probe: sed -i 's/printer\.probe\["x_offset"\]/printer\.configfile\.settings\.probe\.x_offset/g;s/printer\.probe\["y_offset"\]/printer\.configfile\.settings\.probe\.y_offset/g' /home/mks/klipper_config/printer.cfg. and these for the bltouch: sed -i 's/printer\.probe\["x_offset"\]/printer\.configfile\.settings\.bltouch\.x_offset/g;s/printer\.probe\["y_offset"\]/printer\.configfile\.settings\.bltouch\.y_offset/g' /home/mks/klipper_config/printer.cfg
